# Leveraging scientific uncertainty in fisheries management for estimating among-assessment variation in overfishing limits

## ICES Journal of Marine Science
- Kristin M. Privitera-Johnson
- André E. Punt

## Abstract
Fisheries management systems can utilize probability-based harvest control rules to incorporate scientific uncertainty and manager risk tolerance when setting catch limits. A precautionary buffer that scales with scientific uncertainty is used to calculate the acceptable biological catch from the overfishing limit (OFL) for US West Coast groundfish and coastal pelagic species. A previous analysis formed the basis for estimating scientific uncertainty as the among-assessment variation in estimates of the time-series of historical spawning biomass. This “historical biomass” approach may underestimate scientific uncertainty, because the OFL is a function of estimated exploitable biomass and fishing mortality. We developed a new approach that bases the calculation of scientific uncertainty on projected spawning biomass (SSB) and OFLs, accounting for uncertainty in recruitment and among-assessment variation. OFL projections yielded a higher estimate of uncertainty than SSB (0.502 vs. 0.413 for 25-year projections and 0.562 vs. 0.384 for a 1-year projection, assuming a deterministic stock-recruitment relationship). Assuming a stochastic stock-recruitment relationship produced smaller estimates of uncertainty (0.436, 25-year OFL projections; 0.452, 1-year OFL projections; 0.360, 25-year SSB projections; 0.318, 1-year SSB projections). The projection-based approach presented herein is applicable across stocks and regions that conduct assessments with sufficient and consistent outputs for calculating an OFL.
